# Password Manager
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description: 
I created a password manager to help the user keep track of their passwords and store them securely in a database. In my password_manager folder I have a static folder and a templates folder along with app.py, helpers.py, key.env, security.db. The static folder I have simply contains the css style of my app and the java script file really just has an event listener for my password strength checker function I have created. This folder in particular I had to learn some new things including converting some string into JSON data so I could bridge my html form with a python function I had created. I debated on just making this a Java Script function and deleting the python function I had all together but I figured this is a fun way to try Chat gpt and learn something new. I have tried to genuinely learn how each of the functions worked including reading the documentiation and learning exactly how a function works before using it. In my templates I have change_password, index, layout,login, register, and security.db. These templates simply add structre to my page, giving it a layout at the top of my page and and a login screen to defalt to when user is not in session. Register is simple for the user to create an account and change password does just that. Secuirty.db is the database where I hold all the information from the user name to the password for their account along with their accounts and the corrsponding passwords attached to them. All of this info is encrypted with the key in key.env which I will explain later in this readme. Moving over to helper.py I have lots of different functions I use in app.py including setting up the encryption in this file and storing it in key.env. It alos contains a login in required funciton to redirect the user to the log in screen. After that you can see my CipherSuite class I added with the help of Chat GPT. Chat did help me with some of hte logic of this class though the class was my idea I understand one would normally have the key in a more sucre location but for demostration sake I placed it in the key.env file simply to should I understand how it works. This is also something I went to the documentation to learn and understand. Once I have CihperSuite setup I could then begin to encrypt and decrypt information as it was handled with my program. I also have a lock out function along with a lock check checking the user to see if they are locked out. Then I have the password generator and a password strength checker function added. Then finally moving on to app.py I have the encryption being setup for later encryption and decryption for information. Then I have my index route which is the main page that contains all the users information and of course it has the login required function. This route or page handles adding, removing, or updating the users passwords for their accounts. We then have log in which will check the password for the users account and make sure it is them logging in before proceeding to the index screen or the home page. We then have a logout route which does just that. Register route takes in a new users information and encrypts/saves it to security.db along with making sure the users password and confirmation password matches before starting a new account. Then we have a change password route so any user can change their account password and then we can update it in the database. Finally we have the check password strength route which is an active listner I have setup on my javascript index_script.js file. Lastly I will talk a little more on my java script file. I am certain I could have done this another way with in Java Script. However, I wanted to take this opprotunity to learn something new and so with the help of Chat GPT I learned how to bridge the gap between html and python and with in the java script file you can see my notes explaining how each part works. But to keep it a little shorter on here the event listner waits for typing and then takes the users input and runs it through a function called evaluatePasswordStrength. This function converts the input to JSON data then it runs the function and spits out the output of the strength of the password.